**AGENDA**

**i5K Coordinating Group**

**17 January 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EST**

**Meeting Chair:** Marc Halfon

**Attending:** Kristen Panfilio, Monica Poelchau, Marc Halfon, Teresa Shippy, Sarthok Rahman, Sue Brown, Jay Evans, Brad Coates, Glenn Hanes, Josh Benoit, Rena Schweizer

**Regrets:** Duane McKenna, Brian Scheffler, Rob Waterhouse

- **Approval of previous meeting's minutes.**
- **New member introductions**
- **Congratulations on Sharon Roberts' retirement**
  - Email list now maintained by Marc Halfon
  - New calendar invites?

- **Working group highlights (can change order)**
  - Community building and outreach

AGS request for 2 presentations:

1. Monica Poelchau: i5K overview
2. Rena Schweizer or Michael Branstetter: Applications in the Beenome100

AGS Organizing Committee representative from i5K. Seek volunteers from others in the i5K, but Josh Benoit will be the backup.

i5K lunch - recruitment opportunity? Organized by Monica.

i5K mission statement: need to send to Samuel Rund. Monica, please forward link to the i5K revamp document to Brad.

  - Standards - none
  - Exec committee - none
  - Training
  - Genome Project Coordination
- **Working group additional items** (example: AGS organization discussion from the Outreach WG)
- **Other items from the community germane to the cc** (e.g. relevant EBP updates, new funding opportunities, meetings/conferences)

- Discussion on role of i5k at AGS Kenya this summer. Feedback sought for planned 2-hr i5k session.

  - Details of the meeting are as follows, wherein they are requesting that the Coordinating Committee provide two presentations & corresponding presenters for the planned i5K session:
- 1) A presentation that outlines the i5K (which could include recruitment aspects), and
- 2) a presentation on a specialized topic or application.

- Lastly, due to i5K lunches being held at past AGS (led by Monica), is there plans to hold an analogous lunch at the upcoming meeting in Kenya?

- Meeting details:
- Arthropod Genomics Symposium (AGS) 2024 co-hosted by the Kenyan Medical Research Institute (KEMRI), June 25-27, 2024 Nairobi, Kenya. Location KCB Leadership Centre, Nairobi, Kenya; Website and registration links up Feb 1, 2024

- Sessions

\* Insecticide Resistance

\* Transgenics / gene drive

\* Microbiome

\* i5K:

\* Vector Genomics

- Brief update on PAG 2024:
  - Monica gave a talk on the i5k Workspace@NAL, and presented 2 slides on i5k, including 1 on the working groups and recruitment. Thanks to Brad for the stock slides!
  - There's a small but substantial contingent of arthropod researchers that attend PAG now, including 5 arthropod-related sessions.

**NEXT MEETING: 21 February 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EST**
