**i5K Coordinating Group – meeting notes**

**Feb 19, 2020**

**11:00-12:00 (ET**)

**Attending**: Monica Poelchau, Brad Coates, Kevin Hackett, Chris Childers, Brian Scheffler, Jay Evans, Glenn Hanes, Marian Goldsmith, Duane McKenna, Anna Childers, Meg Allen, Rob Waterhouse, Sue Brown


- EBP Update (fringy)
  - No updates.
- Project Database (Mark, Mara, fringy, Monica): ENA-based
  - No updates.
- Meetings
  - PAG Ag100Pests Talk: Join Session per Lindsey Perkin (Kevin); Add 2nd Talk (Surya)
    - Kevin has talked to Lindsey Perkin; would encourage a talk on a &#39;full story&#39; from an Ag100Pest project – would still be good to have an overview talk. We&#39;ll need to think about how to prep this
    - Brad plans on giving a &#39;full story&#39; on the corn rootworm next year
    - Anna: all other genomes are probably too early in the process for a full story
    - Other options: Sheina, Scott, Erin (ALB etc.)
  - Entsoc: Brad has been looking into this, and will take the lead
    - Monica gave an overview of previous symposia we organized within the i5k purview
    - Theme is diversity/inclusion
      - Could also include diversity of stakeholders – government, industry etc.
  - ICE (Rob):
    - There&#39;s a program, hopefully everyone will participate, and there is still room for posters.
- Project Updates
  - DToL (Mark, Mara)
    - No updates.
  - Ag100Pests (Anna)
    - Have moved into HiFi assemblies lately, and these have been working well
    - Are ordering some Illumina for polishing of older assemblies
    - Should be able to push out scaffolded assemblies from this first batch in the next month or so
    - Moving to HiFi has also simplified the compute aspect
    - Closing in on 100 nominated species
      - Still interest in doing a long-horn beetle project (either improve existing or generate new)
  - Beetles (Duane)
    - Not a lot to update – reference quality genomes required by EBP aren&#39;t doable at the funds available, so they are working with draft level genomes
      - Anna: costs are going down, could discuss further
    - Momentum behind an NSF proposal that will sequence additional beetle reference genomes – 12 exemplar genomes at high quality
    - New Asian long-horned beetle that is high quality
      - Will be released in GenBank soonish
    - Community is in a great position for nominating species – but they need someone with momentum/energy to lead the effort, which is difficult without funding
  - Cornome (Brad, Jay, Dave)
  - Bees (Brian)
    - No updates – problems with input DNA
  - France (Denis)
  - California Ecosystem (fringy)
  - Leps (Marian)
    - Darwin Tree of Life Project (UK) plans to sequence ALL Lepidoptera - including moths as well as butterflies - in Wytham Woods (not the UK I guess), an ecologically important locale in Britain, as part of the Earth Biogenome Project. It has already posted 5 new draft genome assemblies for moths and 1 for a butterfly:[https://www.darwintreeoflife.org/an-initial-set-of-raw-genome-assemblies-from-the-darwin-tree-of-life-project/](https://www.darwintreeoflife.org/an-initial-set-of-raw-genome-assemblies-from-the-darwin-tree-of-life-project/)
    - Link to a Jan 28, 2020 webinar where Mark Blaxter reports on progress with the PAC Bio assemblies, etc for the Darwin TOL project. In it he reports 44 new Lepidoptera assemblies. Also a few screen shots of interest to i5K from the video which start around 12 min. Maybe put a link to it on a public i5k site? [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaYbqQQgTL0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iaYbqQQgTL0)
    - Moths – not sure. Several leps are being sequenced as part of Ag100Pest project, e.g. coddling moth; Indian meal moth
- I5K Webinar Update (Anna)
  - No updates.
- New Funding: New Ideas?
  - No updates
- Other:
  - Anna, Brian and Kevin are working on proposal for a grasshopper genome (8.5 Gbs)



**NEXT MEETING: Mar 18, 2020**

**11:00-12:00 am ET**
