**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call Agenda**

**February 16, 2022**

**11:00-12:00 (EDT**

**Attending:** Glenn Hanes, Monica Poelchau, Kevin Hackett, Harris Lewin, Jay Evans, Duane McKenna, Michael Branstetter, Kristen Panfilio, Meg Allen, Brad Coates, Surya Saha, Chris Childers, Anna Childers, Robert Miller, Brian Scheffler, Rob Waterhouse

- **Upcoming Meetings [brief updates, if any]**
  - AGSX 2022 Webinars (Brad)
    - Session 1 was 2 weeks ago, 78 logged in viewers, 300 registered for various sessions, discussion notes are being posted to AGS Slack
    - Next session is March 9th, honeybee workshop. Info will be on the i5k github site.
    - Questions about keeping or removing the 2021/2020 sites - we&#39;ll keep them on github rather than transfer them to the scinet web pages.
  - Arthropod Genomics Symposium, 9-11 June 2022, Notre Dame (Mike, Sue, Josh, Rob)
    - keynotes are sorted out now
    - sorting out workshops now
    - Save the dates are sent out; registration site is not online yet.
  - ICE July 2022 (Rob)
    - Is going ahead, entirely in person. Symposium organizers had to confirm whether they will take place. Rob&#39;s insect genomics workshop will still take place, some of the original speakers are confirmed.
  - Biodiversity Genomics, 3-7 October 2022 (Mark)
    - no news this time
- **Publications:**
  - H. zea (Brad)
    - First chromosome-level assembly to be put out from Ag100Pest. Submitting a &#39;genome note&#39; to GBE, and data to NCBI.
- **EBP Briefing** (Harris Lewin)
  - EBP Update - see slide deck. Encouragement to publish an update on i5k once genomes are out.
  - EBP Metrics related to i5K
    - In theory anything under the i5k umbrella bioproject will be pulled into GOAT. It is okay to have sub-projects under i5k, although it is possible for EBP to pull things apart if there&#39;s a subproject. That said, we still need to submit species lists to GOAT in order to share intent. E.g. [https://goat.genomehubs.org/projects/ERGA](https://goat.genomehubs.org/projects/ERGA)
    - Reference-quality genomes are not required under EBP, but are encouraged. View on draft-quality assemblies is evolving in EBP. The goal is to _ **eventually** _ have reference-quality genomes for everything. It is getting easier and cheaper to have reference-quality genomes now, therefore worth encouraging.
  - Kevin - how can i5k and our affiliates help to further EBP goals in the short term: Harris = keep up the very good communications, keeping all communities informed about ongoing activities is critical, really helps keep things moving. Also keep the community informed about committee activities and opportunities to get involved, also broader participation e.g. from entomology societies and/or museums etc. Keep the strong message to funders/institutes of the importance of reference quality genomes

**NEXT MEETING: March 16, 2022**
