**AGENDA**

**i5K Coordinating Group**

**21 February 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EST**

**Meeting Chair:** Duane McKenna

**Attending:** Sue Brown, Chris Childers, Duane McKenna, Monica Poelchau

**Regrets:** Rena Schweizer

- **Approval of previous meeting’s minutes.**
- **New member introductions**
- **CC member cameo of the month:** Chris Childers
- **Updated Calendar invite for cc meetings:** Brad Coates. We agree that we should re-up the calendar invite - It would be good to mention that Sharon had canceled the previous invites to minimize confusion about the new invite.
- **Discussion topic:** Genome project coordination working group
- **Working group highlights (can change order)**
  - Community building and outreach. No meeting this month.
  - Standards
    - Recruited 4 new members (David Molik, Eric Tvedte, Gregor Bucher, Terrence Sylvester). Meeting on Monday 2/26. Goals are to identify first action items; possibly write paper describing gaps.
    - The consolidated notes document is available
    - Anna is working on a more public-facing document.
  - Exec committee
    - Discussions on: Genome project coordination working group; Calendar invites for this meeting; i5k ‘lunch’ discussion at AGS 2024; looking into NIMMS as a funding opportunity.
  - Training. Did not meet this month.
  - Genome Project Coordination: Report and Discussion
    - Recruiting new members
    - Connecting components of the community
    - Connecting to/with GoaT
    - Invite Cibele Sotero-Caio (from GoaT)
- **Working group additional items** (example: AGS organization discussion from the Outreach WG)
  - From Brad: ESA Member Symposium submission this year; Due March 15. Someone besides me or willing to help me out in the organization of one? Theme and topic ideas appreciated.
- **Other items from the community germane to the cc** (e.g. relevant EBP updates, new funding opportunities, meetings/conferences)

**NEXT MEETING: 20 March 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**
