**AGENDA**

**i5K Coordinating Group**

**20 March 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**

**Meeting Chair:** Monica Poelchau

**Attending:** Duane McKenna, Monica Poelchau, Kevin Hackett, Alexie Papanicolaou, Terrence Sylvester, Chris Childers, Sarthok Rasique Rahman, Anna Childers, David Molik, Stephen Richards, Brad Coates, Josh Benoit, Harris Lewin’s AI

**Regrets: Rob Waterhouse**

- **Approval of previous meeting’s minutes.**
- **“New” member introductions:** Alexie Papanicolaou, David Molik, Stephen Richards
- **CC member cameo of the month:** Chris Childers
- **Working group highlights (can change order)**
  - Community building and outreach.
    - AGS-X spring symposium is ongoing - Feb session completed, three new sessions coming up in April and May. Will be getting registration information out soon.
    - ICE 2024 session. i5k-ish symposium organized by Brad. Anna will speak about i5k/Ag100Pest. Another i5k-related symposium is also available.
    - Brad and Sarthok worked together and submitted a member symposium proposal for Entomology 2024. We will hear back about it on/before 17 April.
    - AGS 2024 in Kenya
      - I5k session (talks)
      - I5k community discussion
      - Question about oxford nanopore presence at meeting - this might be a valuable technology due to cost. Is it worth identifying a rep from Oxford Nanopore?
  - Standards - starting on figure-based outline of white paper
  - Exec committee - met 3/11, mostly touched base.
  - Training. Haven’t had a chance to meet lately. Still working on videos and transcripts. Building list of resources that they’d like to share next month.
  - Genome Project Coordination. Trying to connect with Cibele Sotero-Caio - she will likely join our meeting in May.
- **Working group additional items** (example: AGS organization discussion from the Outreach WG)
- **Other items from the community germane to the cc** (e.g. relevant EBP updates, new funding opportunities, meetings/conferences)
- Notes from EBP meeting 3/7:
  - Sample collection and processing committee is publishing guidance; EBP has established a protocols.io space for EBP that members are welcome to publish on
  - Analysis committee has been focused on large-scale alignments
  - CNGB will release a genomes portal in March
  - Anna brought up GenBank submission and flows to RefSeq post-submission. Erich had a convo with GenBank on how to best streamline submissions (also ENA submissions - they are a different team). Might be worth having a regular meeting to discuss problems and work on fixes. RefSeq gets many requests to annotate, which slows things down, but they are open to requests.
  - Mentioned alpha release of EGAP pipeline soon - very basic at this point, won’t be able to produce RefSeq-quality annotation yet.
  - _Comment that sharing genomes that are in progress should be a prerequisite for every affiliate project (e.g. i5k)_. In addition to completed projects. MP note: this highlights the importance of the i5k genome project coordination committee, and that we need to keep efforts up to keep this committee going.
  - Biodiversity cell atlas was highlighted.
  - Frontiers workshop manuscript to set future goals for EBP is at the final stages.

**NEXT MEETING: 17 April 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**
