**AGENDA**

**i5K Coordinating Group**

**17 April 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**

**Meeting Chair:** Sue Brown

**Attending:** Sue Brown, Monica Poelchau, Chris Childers, Marc Halfon, David Molik, Brad Coates, Josh Benoit, Duane McKenna, Terrence Sylvester, Jay Evans, Kevin Hackett, Brian Scheffler, Anna Childers, Rob Waterhouse, Glenn Hanes

**Regrets:**

- **Approval of previous meeting’s minutes.**
- **New member introductions**
- **CC member cameo of the month:** Sarthok Rahman (10 min) not in attendance
- **Working group highlights (can change order)**
  - Community building and outreach
  - AGSx <https://i5k.github.io/agsx2024Notes> from AGSx from Anna

Upcoming sessions:

Session 3: Beenome100 and Comparative Bee Genomics, Tuesday, April 30 at 11am-1pm EDT. Moderators Jay Evans & Michael Branstetter.

Session 4: NCBI [Comparative Genomic Resources](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/comparative-genomics-resource/about/#:~:text=The%20National%20Institutes%20of%20Health,data%20resources%20to%20biomedical%20research.), Tuesday, May 21 11am-1pm EDT. Moderated by Terence Murphy.

[Arthropod Genomics Symposium](https://pamca.org/en/resources/news/59/registration-for-the-arthropod-genomics-symposium-june-2024-in-nairobi-kenya-is-now-live!), June 25-27 at [KCB Leadership Centre, Nairobi, Kenya](https://maps.app.goo.gl/wajcLvoCNw21sLZd8) Nairobi, Kenya. Host: Kenyan Medical Research Institute (KEMRI). Detail at <https://bit.ly/ags2024> <https://i5k.github.io/agsx2024> asking presenters if talks might be recorded

Biodiversity genomics (BG24) 28th Oct - 1st Nov 2024

proposed 3 i5k sessions -

b[eenome100](https://www.beenome100.org/) and [Ag100Pest](https://scinet.usda.gov/research/working-groups/ag100pest) Initiatives, Jay Evans and Anna Childers

BEETLE TREE OF LIFE Duane McKenna

i5K COMMUNITY would like to hold a meeting, Brad S. Coates and Monica Poelchau

I[nternational Congress in Entomology 2024 (ICE24)](https://ice2024.org/) August 25-30, 2024, Kyoto

Symposium “International sequencing initiatives: Building genomic resources and bridging research disciplines”, organized by Brad Coates

Includes presentation “USDA ARS’s Ag100Pest Initiative and Beenome100: From Pests to Pollinators and Beyond”, Anna Childers USDA-ARS

Entomological Society of America National Meeting, November 10-13 in Phoenix, AZ, Section Symposium “Genomic Approaches to Empower the Coexistence of Pest Control and Pollinator Protection” organized by Brad Coates and Sarthak Rahman

Accepted and in planning

- - Standards. Continuing to work on outline of standards + gaps white paper. Includes discussion on genome notes/reports standardization to decrease burden on reviewers.
        - Comment - it would be good to write a standalone discussion paper on this which includes the history of the genome paper (from large-scale analyses in the past, to current notes model). This would be useful for the entire community. Would need to consider including editors of journals
        - Note that the standards should go beyond the numbers, but what other content is expected to be included.
        - Wellcome trust is planning to release their software that automatically generates genome notes (without the intro)
        - Comment that the name ‘note’ may not fully capture what these papers can be. E.g. distinction between taxonomic descriptions that are basic vs. those that propose new ideas.
            - It would be worth defining what a ‘genome note’ or ‘genome report’ is vs. fuller description
    - Exec committee.
    - Discussion on delegation of some EBP votes to non-USDA i5k member. Discussion on activities to increase outreach/interest in i5k - ‘hot topic’ paper reviews similar to MGC (<https://maizegdb.org/hot_new_papers>);
    - Podcast interviews of scientists and their genome project
    - Training no meeting
    - Genome Project Coordination next month discussion with Cibele on interactions with GOAT. What is a genome project group? How many genomes constitutes a group? How to submit progress on genome projects?
- **Working group additional items** (example: AGS organization discussion from the Outreach WG)
- **Other items from the community germane to the cc** (e.g. relevant EBP updates, new funding opportunities, meetings/conferences)
  - There was an EBP member meeting 4/4
  - Should we advertise AGS-X on the EBP twitter feed? They are looking for material to post/retweet. We should take advantage of this, this feed gets thousands of views. <https://twitter.com/EBPgenome> . We could re-tweet their job announcements - not sure what our X/twitter process is right now
  - JEDI committee is finishing up a white paper to be published in a peer-reviewed journal
  - Reminder about EBP protocols.io channel. <https://www.protocols.io/workspaces/earth-biogenome-project>
  - A Primer on Science Policy for Biodiversity Research - Webinar Series <https://www.erga-biodiversity.eu/post/a-primer-on-science-policy-for-biodiversity-research-webinar-series>
  - GoaT 2023 report: [\_ToL Genomes on a Tree (GoaT) Report 2023](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GLXEEsIHAh22k6jev0LKy9R9o9eTU7fhjoPlBvDv0zw/edit) See table 3, page 21 for i5k stats
  - Presentation on project Psyche by Charlotte Wright. <https://www.projectpsyche.org/> . Generating 2000 lep genomes in the first 2 years of the project. 5000 and 11000 in years 3.5, 5. 17 countries, 49 institutes.
  - Should i5k reach out - invite them to present here, or have an i5k rep join their meetings?
  - They have worked on developing standards for leps, and have working groups for many scientific questions
  - They are creating standardized resources: alignments; protein orthology; repeats; variants; ncDNA
  - Can join via <https://www.projectpsyche.org/participate/>

Discussion topics:

- Should we feature monthly Discussion Topics for this meeting and if so, of what sort?
- Possibility of creating a curated list of ‘hot papers’ and/or interviews/podcasts with authors
- What to advertise in email meeting reminder
- **Link to next month’s agenda:** Email Marc ([mshalfon@buffalo.edu](mailto:mshalfon@buffalo.edu)) or add directly using this link: [Provisional Agenda 15 May 2024 i5k coordinating committee](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IEcXE_Cb0iR-QUj2vU075UnkSyK2DeUiIaqMDfqTFms/edit?usp=sharing)

**NEXT MEETING: 15 May 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**
