**i5K Coordinating Group**

**April 19, 2023**

**11:00-12:00 EDT** **[Note change to EDT in the U.S.]**

_Based on progress re-visioning i5K, we will attempt to come to consensus on a way forward._

_We are all very busy:_

_How can me make i5K fun, yet worthwhile?_

Attending: Monica Poelchau, Glenn Hanes, Meg Allen, Sarthok Rahman, Anna Childers, Brad Coates, Marc Halfon, Sue Brown, Rob Waterhouse, Duane McKenna, Kristen Panfilio, Chris Childers

- **Meetings [brief updates, if any]**
  - Arthropod Genomics Symposium 2023 (Josh)
    - Josh proposed August 14-18th week
    - Online-only meeting
  - Arthropod Genomics Symposium X ([AGSx](http://i5k.github.io/agsx2023)) Virtual Spring Symposium 2023 (Brad)
    - April 11th had ~100 participants
    - Next is May 9th - Beenome et al.
    - Anna will update the website with the info for the May session
    - Question - when will videos be online - Glenn is working on it!
  - International Congress in Entomology ([ICE](https://ice2024.org/)) Symposium proposal (Brad)
    - Working on a draft proposal "Global challenges in entomology"
    - Deadline June 12th - need some more people to help co-organise
    - Will ICE allow virtual talks?
    - What themes? "Beyond genomes" What next and how? Pangenomes? Phenotypes?
  - XII European Congress of Entomology ([ECE 2023](https://ece2023.com/))
    - Heraklion, Crete, on 16-20 October 2023
  - Biodiversity Genomics 2023 [#BG23](https://twitter.com/BiodivGenomics/status/1635295903237148676)
    - October 2-6 - virtual

- **EBP Update (Anna)**
  - annotations committee has undergone a refresh and has drafted a recommendations document that will go on the EBP site after review
  - continued work on ELSI and JEDI issues
  - report from Korean polar research institute
  - discussion of how regional nodes will operate
  - upcoming frontiers workshop on blockers and possible solutions for Phase 2 of EBP

- **Visioning 2023 (Monica, Brad, Sue)**
- New priorities: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MSx4B0v3Nb1d\_bB1T7nYprSZFW\_kiVYzifH6kIKKd\_E/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MSx4B0v3Nb1d_bB1T7nYprSZFW_kiVYzifH6kIKKd_E/edit)
- Comments on the new priorities:
  - Feedback was positive.
  - Presenting on this during a future meeting (e.g. AGS) would be useful for recruitment
  - Each one of us will need to pick a working group, and need to recruit a junior member to join. The sooner you recruit people to it, the sooner you may be able to pass off the leadership role.
  - Should we have the i5k leadership team start figuring out how to set up the working groups first? that might have us lose momentum
  - Slack could be used to communicate within working groups
  - **Working group initial composition:**
    - Community building/outreach: Brad, Josh, Rob (Slack), Anna (website, YouTube, Twitter), Duane
    - Leadership: Kevin? recruit Jay?, Monica and others who participated in the generation of the priorities could help start (?)
    - Training: Sue, Teresa, Sarthok, Anna
    - Standards: Monica, Marc, Anna
    - Coordination: Rob, Kristen, Duane, Anna
- Homework for next time - start organizing working groups. Schedule a meeting for each working group to go over goals. Report at next meeting. Don't necessarily need to start recruiting yet.

**NEXT MEETING: May 17, 2023**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**
