**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call**  **Notes**

**September 15, 2021**

**11:00-12:00 (EDT**)

**Attending** : Kevin Hackett, Monica Poelchau, Meg Allen, Kristen Panfilio, Jay Evans, Anna Childers, Rosa Fernandez, Duane McKenna, Rob Waterhouse, Glenn Hanes, Brad Coates, Surya Saha, Chris Childers, Catherine Hill, Marian Goldsmith

- **Introductions of New Members**
  - Rosa Fernandez - Group Leader at Institute of Evolutionary Biology - Barcelona
- **Meetings**
  - Biodiversity Genomics ([https://tinyurl.com/biogenomics21](https://tinyurl.com/biogenomics21)), Sep 27-Oct 1, 2021: Are we separate or pulled into main sessions? (Rob, Surya, Josh, Kristen, Anna)
    - Insect genomes from chromosomes to ecosystems - Rob and Kim Worley are chairing
    - Other talks (e.g. Rob&#39;s) are also represented in some non-insect sessions
    - Alternate insect/i5k meeting is possible if it doesn&#39;t conflict with the main schedule. Do we need this, and who would be willing to organize this? Scope would be an informal panel discussion: updates from the i5k community to hear who&#39;s doing what. Lower the threshold of i5k - explain that i5k is open to anyone.
    - Instead- have a &#39;bulletin board&#39; to raise awareness of i5k and i5k-related progress? May need to update the i5k.github.io site with new projects (e.g. ERGA, etc). Perhaps a page listing all i5k talks at Biodiversity genomics - or just advertise on the arthropod genomics slack (e.g. the coming next channel). Spin-off on one of the &#39;social&#39; events at the meeting? Catherine points out that it&#39;s hard for non-i5k people to find i5k/invert genomics talks within the meeting agenda.
    - \*Rob will try to get a list of talks from Mark that we can advertise on Slack
    - How do you join the arthropod genomics community Slack? Invites expire after 10 days. Admin/Rob adds people; members can request new people
  - ESA, Oct 31-Nov 3, 2021: Symposium &quot;Advancing Insect Genomics through the Ag100Pest and i5K Initiatives&quot;: Can we have an i5K YouTube Channel rebroadcast? (Brad, Sheina)
    - will likely be all virtual
    - broadcast - Becky Anthony will ask
  - PAG, Jan 8-12, 2022, San Diego: Workshop Proposals (due Sept 3, 2021) (Brad)
    - not sure due to ARS travel restrictions
  - Arthropod Genomics 2022 - meeting planning is in progress
    - Notre Dame, 6-12 June 2022. Mary-Ann McDowell and Mike Pfrender are leading. 8-10 are on the organizing committee.
    - The first few days will be workshops
    - Notre Dame sponsorship, the theme will be vectors. Looking for keynotes now.
    - Launched a call for speaker suggestions on Slack
    - Hybrid plan - on-site in Notre Dame with some sort of virtual participation. Still figuring out how.
  - AGSX2022 - Brad and colleagues are thinking about setting this up (in particular since it is likely USDA-ARS people won&#39;t&#39; be able to attend PAG due to covid travel restrictions)
  - Other updates
    - Tawny Crazy Ant project with Dovetail (Meg). A talk may not happen due to USDA ethics regulations.

- **Publications**
  - Cell Genomics (Anna)
    - This has been re-submitted to PNAS (along with all other EBP papers). Sub-projects will be in supplement instead of a separate paper.
  - Insects (Monica) - a few straggler papers in review, we hope to wrap up the special issue soon.
  - Plug for Journal of Insect Science for smaller genomics papers from Meg.

- **Project – Updates**

  - EBP (Kevin). Discussion of efforts for US-based federal funding for genome sequencing
  - Ag100Pest Update (Anna). Agreements (funding) to sequence orthoptera. Producing pipelines, software (mitochondrial genome assembly in CLR data for arthropods, etc). Starting to push out scaffolded genomes to NCBI.
  - Bee Genomes (Jay). New congressional funding for sequencing 100 bee genomes etc. In collection and species choice phase.
  - I5K Workspace at NAL (Chris, Monica)
    - Can provide a full update in October
    - Plug for AgBioData RCN working group participation - if you are interested in collaborating with us on making genomics data more FAIR, please join a working group! Join the mailing list to find out more: [https://www.agbiodata.org](https://www.agbiodata.org/)

**NEXT MEETING: October 20, 2021**

**11:00-12:00 am EDT**
