**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call Notes**

**September 16, 2020**

**11:00-12:00 (EDT**)

_We will finalize preparations for i5K participation in the Biodiversity Genomics 2020 workshop._

_[Note: In October, we will capitalize on the AGS/i5K meeting in July and the Biodiversity Genomics 2020 workshop and discuss how to move i5K forward, aligning goals with EBP.]_

**Attending: Glenn Hanes, Dorith Rotenberg, Sue Brown, Duane McKenna, Kristen Panfilio, Meg Allen, Brad Coates, Monica Poelchau, Anna Childers, Stephen Richards**

- **Meetings**
  - **Biodiversity Genomics/EBP** _Oct 5-9, 2020_ **(Sue, Mark, Mara, Rob, fringy)**
    - Abstract selection and workshop preparations (Surya, Dorith)
      - 6 talks; 2 invited speakers will bookend the session. Good cross-section of speaker and insect diversity
      - Everyone has been notified and have accepted their invitations, have started their recordings
      - Question: what if there are technical issues? There is no buffer planned (50 minutes only for the whole session). A company is organizing this. In Kristen&#39;s experience the first minute is usually taken up by people logging on.
      - Could send introduction information/pertinent info in the meeting chat, in case people missed it initially
    - Decide on the need for a Community Session during one of the evenings
      - It is possible to build in a &#39;chat session&#39; with some discussion points that is not highly structured; to replicate some of the discussion that you would usually have in-person
        - possible topic, based on the experience from the AGS symposium organizers - i5k is grassroots, not a funding body - anybody can join, or set up meetings!
        - Re-introduce concept of &#39;i5k east&#39;, to overcome time zone barrier? What about language barrier?
        - What is the minimum cost to assemble a genome?
      - Could ask for people to be prepared to give a 1-minute update on what genomes they are working on
      - When would be a good time for this? two sessions - one before the official meeting, one after?
        - Could be recorded, and there could also be a note-taker
        - We&#39;d need to ask the organizers what&#39;s possible. **Anna will ask**.
        - Once we have options, we will circulate them and make a decision.
- Other:
  - get i5k webinars re-started; perhaps do this at a different time to recruit other groups
  - ESA insect genomics symposium:
    - all pre-recorded talks
    - there will be a live panel discussion - still deciding whether this will be two or one sessions
  - EBP updates:
    - Colombia has a nice biodiversity genomics program coming through
    - more communities (mostly unfunded) coming on board
    - Assemblies are working well
    - Would be good to work out, as a community, what a low cost really is for assembling a genome. Personnel costs are the same as or more than the reagent costs.
  - Ag100Pest updates:
    - beetle assemblies in general are working very well (although it depends on GC content and genome size)
    - recent (identical), short repeats are still problematic

**NEXT MEETING: October 21, 2020**

**11:00-12:00 am EDT**
