**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Oct 19, 2022**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**

_The focus of this meeting will be on continuing to re-vision i5K._

**Attending:** Anna Childers, Chris Childers, Glenn Hanes, Sue Brown, Rob Waterhouse, Sarthok Rahman, Marc Halfon, Monica Poelchau, fringy Richards, Duane McKenna, Surya Saha, Brad Coates, Michael Pfrender, Michael Branstetter

- **Past Meeting Updates**
  - ICE-Helsinki (Rob). Rob's session went well.
- **Upcoming Meetings [brief updates, if any]**
  - Biodiversity Genomics-Hinxton, 3-7 October 2022 (Mark, Rob, Anna): Post-meeting
    - Suggestion - hybrid in future with local, in-person engagement
    - Talk quality was good
    - Might be nice to highlight talks afterwards so you know to go back to them later
  - ESA-Vancouver, 13-16 November 2022 (Brad, Catherine)
    - things are moving along
    - regarding talk quality assessment - ESA has a way to 'star' talks on their conference portal
- **Publications** - no updates
- **EBP Update (Anna)**
  - governance of org structure
  - global DSI handling
  - proposal - 1% tax on anyone who benefits from DSI, which could go back to groups where the samples originated that typically don't see any financial benefits
  - DEI discussions
  - how to move EBP beyond phase 1
  - of the new genomes that are available on GOAT, the highest quality tend to be from EBP
- **Presentation on All of Us platform (fringy)**
  - possible model for how i5k Workspace could evolve
  - question regarding credit towards those who develop the pipelines - how can it be ensured that bioinformaticists' work is valued and not disregarded?
  - should training on analyses focus on making analyses too easy, or explaining how the analyses should be performed?
  - foster collaborations between bench/field scientists and computational biologists, in addition to training in bioinformatics? E.g. Beenome project
  - scientific use case scenario - e.g. typical conservation genomics pipelines, or identify the top 10 ag100pest analyses
  - Use case from Sarthok's lab - GWAS, workflow in github, whole lab tries to do analyze in the same way - e.g. Galaxy model
- **Visioning 2022 (Monica, Brad)**
  - _Brief recap of last month's meeting_
    - Two levels to think about here
      - small concrete suggestions that came out of the lunches/discussions
      - vision and mission and longer term future for i5k
      - also how the workspace fits into this future
  - _Old and new vision review_
    - 'Priority setting' ⇒ less important these days
    - 'coordination among projects' ⇒ more important these days
    - training ⇒ still just as important as ever
    - 'protocols' ⇒ called 'guidelines' previously, this is probably more important than ever now - protocols for all steps from sampling to data analysis (compgeno) - analysis protocols can be considered analogous to computational workflows
    - how to give recognition / incentive for community contributions to common good tools/workflows/notebooks (micro-publications)
    - old vision had clear objectives to connect with funders - this did not come up this time in the review … some success with lobbying US Congress, but it is really hard and things move really slowly ⇒ have we been talking to too-high-a-level and need to go down a notch to wider decision makers?
    - What about getting support from e.g. National Academy of Entomology, other stakeholders that could benefit from genome data
    - Need to communicate use-cases, concrete understandable examples of benefits to humans ecosystems etc.
  - _Discussion of new reasonable and manageable action items/approaches to act on vision_
  - _If time, discuss whether we:_
    - _Could put together a new action plan that would be worth funding via an RCN or other mechanism, or_
    - _Conversely, pare down i5K so that the action plan items are reasonable and manageable for a non-funded group_

**NEXT MEETING: November 16, 2022**

**11:00-12:00 EST**

**Note, this is EST with the time change**
