**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call Agenda**

**October 21, 2020**

**11:00-12:00 (EDT**)

**Attending:** Mark Blaxter, Rob Waterhouse, Monica Poelchau, Duane McKenna, Surya Saha, Jay Evans, Marian Goldsmith, Brian Sheffler, Mara Lawnicziak, Stephen Richards, Sue Brown, Kristen Panfilio, Anna Childers, Robert Miller, Brad Coates

*A partial recording of this meeting is available on request.*

- **Meetings**
  - **Biodiversity Genomics/EBP** recap
    - Great job, Dorith and Surya!
    - Poster session on zoom instead, with 3-4 minute spiel per poster.
    - 3,200 people registered - 5,400 different people logged in! 90 countries participated.
    - Statistics will be sent for the i5k session
    - Please fill out the questionnaire
    - Speakers should have received a request to put talks on youtube permanently
    - Recordings should be available on site for 1 month. If the # of people viewing them is still high after 3 weeks, they may extend for another month
    - Pre-recorded talks went well, having live questions was good
    - Kudos for the AV support received!
    - Slack also helped for troubleshooting and networking
    - Talks made apparent the need for funding for genome projects…
    - Questions about technologies to use and costs
    - Thoughts on hybrid meetings in the future? The organizing committee is already discussing this - satellite meetings in different countries discussing the same content. In-person meetings in future will probably look quite different after this experience - they are still necessary for better cross-talk (people who wouldn&#39;t talk to each other otherwise). This cross-talk could help groups that aren&#39;t already part of existing sequencing groups (e.g. VGP, i5k) to join in.
    - Virtual meetings also harder for younger people/those not established in a community to start networking (e.g. the random connections you make at meals)
    - Manual genome assembly curation (using GVAL program, [https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.08.12.247734v1](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.08.12.247734v1)) - 100 or so manual corrections per Gb of assembly usually necessary
    - Kristen: How do people feel the diversity aspect went? taxonomic, regional, and otherwise?
      - EBP, VGP, GiGA, Dtol organized. Biodiversity - Each taxonomic group had a session.
      - Lower/middle income countries: 90 countries attended. Fora were held with panelists. EBP Africa had a showcase- there was a lot of discussion on how African scientists can contribute
      - Early career scientists: Forum was held with panelists.
      - &#39;Challenges&#39; presentation at the end of the meeting also added some diversity to the dialogue
      - Peter Dearden gave a very thorough overview and discussion on how to sequence a native flora (not just sequencing, but also involving the local community)
    - When do you need a VGP - quality assembly? Mark&#39;s take on this is that if we can, we should. Of course not every project needs a high-quality genome. The cost is getting low enough and the technology good enough where this high standard can be feasible (to enable answering more questions). Anna - why do it twice when you can do it once? fringy: we are working against this question all the time. Perhaps we need to foster more of a &#39;reference dataset&#39; mindset. Mark and Sue: Even conservation genomics might need high quality genomes, they just don&#39;t know it yet.

- ESA _Nov 15-18, 2020_ (Monica, Brad)
- All talks recording/recorded
- Still need to work on the panel session - looking for input on how to make this discussion session work. Anna - best to focus on bigger-picture questions. Rob- cf. the Biodiversity genomics &#39;challenge&#39; session. Speakers prepared a 2-minute blurb ahead of time. One way to get the conversation to a higher level.
- Panel Session - advertise time and date of this (the rest of the talks are all on-demand) use ArtGen Slack
- Friday, November 20, 2020 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM EST

  - PAG-San Diego: Ag100Pests Talks _Jan 9-11, 2021_ (Anna, Surya)
    - postponed until March, more information tbd. Hard to know whether to plan or coordinate anything yet.

- Project Database (Mark, Mara, fringy, Monica): ENA-based
  - DToL: ~24 species a week, some lag to get into public databases. Genomes are coming out beautifully. \&gt;600 species in freezers. 246 in sequencing. Look at Mark&#39;s slides for the details
  - [https://tolqc.cog.sanger.ac.uk/index.html](https://tolqc.cog.sanger.ac.uk/index.html) - open portal for QC data for all read sets
  - [https://goat.genomehubs.org/preview/](https://goat.genomehubs.org/preview/) - genomes on a tree. This may be able to stand in for a &#39;status&#39; website (e.g. lab x is working on species y, current status is z). Written by Richard Challis and Sujay Kumar, uses elasticsearch
  - EBP sub-committee has draft documents ready, but still a bit more work to get it close to finished, Mara noted we need some more cross-talk across the groups especially before anything goes online
- Project Updates - Bees (Brian).
  - Some bees are working - these have been difficult to extract. It seems that the longer the material is stored, the worse the DNA quality (in general). Bees are worse.
  - Mara: they&#39;ve been able to extract several hymenoptera. 2 wasps are having trouble completing the genome, though, even though the underlying data are sound. Perhaps a chromosome structure issue (B chromosomes)? Can also check protocols on ATUTA slack.
  - Lot number issues for PacBio supplies?
