**i5K Coordinating Group**

**Conference Call Meeting Notes**

**Nov 27, 2019**

**10:00-11:00 (EDT**)

The focus will be on report backs from the ESA meeting and preparing for other meetings.

**Attending:** Kevin Hackett, Surya Saha, Meg Allen, Monica Poelchau, Anna Childers, Mark Blaxter, Mara Lawnicziak

- **Change in Meeting Time**
  - Changing meeting time to 11 am Eastern – but what about European colleagues?
    - **Action item** : Kevin (or other) will get in touch with European colleagues
- **ESA Annual Meeting Report Back (Monica and others)**
  - Decent attendance – highest count was 85 people. Went well overall. However -
  - We didn&#39;t figure out how to prioritize species during discussion. Therefore:
- **How do we coordinate sequencing and prioritization?**
  - **&#39;The list&#39;**
    - Fringy is compiling a list – will this be public at some point?
    - Marc Blaxter&#39;s BioProject idea (at least for larger projects, eg DtoL, Ag100Pest, etc)
    - Sanger hasa UK list, with working groups to decide which from the list will be sequenced, and which ones have already been sequenced
    - Labs sequencing single genomes can view the BioProject plans from larger projects that way, or contribute
    - **Action item:** Anna will coordinate how to document and advertise this procedure for insects. People involved: Anna, Mark, Mara, fringy, Monica, possibly others
    - Publishing standards in journals can be hard – instead, do a preprint (which you could keep on updating)? Or Fairsharing?
  - How to prioritize?
    - Ag100Pest has a prioritization list
      - [http://i5k.github.io/ag100pest](http://i5k.github.io/ag100pest)
    - Could possibly have others vote on species on list?
    - Sanger has a process for this
      - 1 reference genome from every family in the UK in the next 2-3 years, 2 references in the next 5 years
      - All British butterflies and megamoths
      - Discussions about other taxa that would be nice to do deeper (important, iconic, interesting…)
- **Selected Future Meeting Issues/Updates**
  - **PAG Meeting Participation**
    - No efforts to coordinate at PAG yet, at least formally
    - There are several insect symposia; Anna will advertise them on the i5k github site
  - **Helsinki ICE Meeting Participation**
    - Rob Waterhouse is co-organizing a genomics session; will talk about larger sequencing projects
- **Funding**
  - NSF talk at ESA: interdisciplinary projects may work well to support sequencing
- **I5K Webinar: Top Issues (Anna)**
  - Sample prep webinar in the works with special time and date next year
- **Standards for i5K Assembly (Anna)**
  - Looking for different medium to publish this
- **Other:**
  - New protocol for de novo assembly from PacBio is out
  - ATUTA channel link: tinyurl.com/ATUTA2019
  - Sanger has multiple SOPs for extraction, etc – will release to protocols.io so they are datestamped and DOI&#39;d for easier citation



**NEXT MEETING: Jan 2020 – Date TBD** **[Jan 16 conflicts with PAG]**

**11:00-12:00 am ET** **[Note Proposed Change in Time]**
