**AGENDA**

**i5K Coordinating Group**

**20 December 2023**

**11:00-12:00 EST**

**Meeting Chair: Brad Coates**

**Attending:** Rob Waterhouse, Marc Halfon, Monica Poelchau, Glenn Hanes, Anna Childers, Brad Coates, Teresa Shippy, Sarthok Rahman, Josh Benoit, Mary Ann McDowell, Sue Brown, Duane McKenna, Chris Childers

**Regrets:**

- **Approval of previous meeting's minutes.**

Brad 1st and Marc 2nd motion

- **New member introductions** : Teresa Shippy
- **CC member cameo of the month:** Rob Waterhouse
- **Report of the Standards Working Group with follow-up discussion**
  - Summary of WG meeting on Oct. 30. _Provisional_ consolidated notes: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lh4YQVVo-Ud12vtigN2Pz6mS9\_NVa8bgIAlbKr9GE1Q/edit#heading=h.viumhi5i1vqs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lh4YQVVo-Ud12vtigN2Pz6mS9_NVa8bgIAlbKr9GE1Q/edit#heading=h.viumhi5i1vqs)
  - Feedback from Coordinating Committee on issue prioritization
  - Identification of overlaps with other working groups
- **Report of the Genome Project Coordination Working Group (20-30 min.)**
  - Summary of current progress
  - Recruitment of additional/new members
- **Working group highlights (can change order)**
  - Community building and outreach

The chair missed the meeting, but will be scheduling AGSx 2024 Sessions Feb-May 2024 in early January.

i. February: Genomics for Insects as Food and Feed (Kristen Duffield)

ii. March: Beenome100 and Comparative Bee Genomics (Jay Evans)

iii. April: Insect Genome Biology and Evolution (Lindsey Perkin)

iv. May: NIH NCBI [Comparative Genomic Resources](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/comparative-genomics-resource/about/#:~:text=The%20National%20Institutes%20of%20Health,data%20resources%20to%20biomedical%20research.) (Terence Spencer)

International Congress Entomology 2024

Symposium (accepted) "International sequencing initiatives: Building genomic resources and bridging research disciplines" organized by Brad Coates

Presentation: USDA ARS Ag100Pest & Beenome100 of i5K by Anna Childers.

Symposium "Insect Genome Trans Data Analysis" organized by Kakeru Yokoi

Presentation: USDA ARS Ag100Pest applications in genomics of field crop pests by Brad Coates

  - Training. Considering interview format. Sarthok has a list of available tools ready.
  - Exec committee. We discussed an idea from Anna to have a specific discussion topic/theme for each of these meetings, and advertise that topic in the email (possibly subject line), with the goal of making them interesting/attractive and recruiting more participants.

- **Working group additional items** (example: AGS organization discussion from the Outreach WG)
- **Other items from the community germane to the cc** (e.g. relevant EBP updates, new funding opportunities, meetings/conferences)
  - AGS 2024 will be in Kenya (near ICIPE in a conference center). VectorBase workshop Jun. 22-25. AGS Jun. 25 Keynote evening - Jun. 27th.

**NEXT MEETING: 17 January 2024**

**11:00-12:00 EDT**
